# Project Proposal
Data Set: Personal Key Indicators of Heart Disease https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/kamilpytlak/personal-key-indicators-of-heart-disease
# Project Title: Key Indicatiors of Heart Disease
Overview: 
  One of the leading causes of death in the US is heart disease.  If we can look at data from patients that suffered a form of heart disease and patients that did not we can possibly work towards identifying features that signal a possible case of heart disease and take prevenative measures to stop it completely or mitigate damages to the patient. To address this, I propose building data visualizations that show the connection between certain quantitative/qualitative features and how often they are connected with people who suffer from heart disease.
  # Data Description
  The dataset describes participants who volunteered for a telephone survey by the CDC. The dataset contains 319,796 records and consists of quantitative variables such as BMI. Most of the quantitative variables are responses given by the patient, such as the columns "PhysicalHealth", "SleepTime" and "MentalHealth". These columns are answers the patients gave to the question such as "In the last 30 days how many of those days would you say you were in poor health?" .  There are 3 demographic features; age, race, and gender. The rest are boolean values (HeartDisease, Smoking, Stroke, DiffWalking, Diabetic, PhysicalActivity, Asthma, KidneyDisease, SkinCancer). And 1 categorical column, GenHealth which has 5 categories.
  
  # Usage
  Dr. Jackson is a cardiologist who wants to understand the connection between different health factors and likeliness of heart disease in his area. Dr. Jackson can open the "Heart Disease Exploration" app and will see the variables that are recorded and through different visualizations and filtering methods he can see that patients with that described having more than 7 days of bad physical health in the last 30 that are over 40 years old are significantly more likely to have heart disease.  He is more aware of this connection for future patients and starts asking the question "In the last 30 days how many of those would you say you were in bad physical health?" to people around and over the age range of 40.
